Story Recapped here. Today,
I'm going to explain a mystery,
thriller, and sci-fi film called "Mute."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
As a child, Leo Beiler had suffered from a
swimming accident that severely damaged his
larynx. The doctor tells his Amish mother
that she might be able to save Leo's voice,
but the religious parent refuses an
operation, arguing that God will heal her son.
By 2035, Leo still clings to some of his
Amish roots and avoids the use of technology.
He has taken up wood carving and
drawing as a hobby while working
as a bartender at a Berlin strip club at night.
Before going to work one night, he goes
on a date with his girlfriend Naadirah,
who works as a cocktail waitress at the
same bar. While enjoying their meal,
She gives him an outdated phone to help
him communicate. Naadirah asserts that the
device would make things easier for them.
After Leo manages to turn the phone on,
Naadirah shows him how to activate the camera
and make a video. When the footage shows up on
the monitors around them, Leo tries to take the
phone and hide his face. Naadirah tells him to
stop hiding because he's beautiful, calling
him "da stargo tora, the black of her eyes."
At the bar, Leo tosses a small spherical wood
carving to Naadirah. She says it's the best she
has seen, but she asks him to make something
more elaborate, like a seahorse. While she's
serving drinks, two rude customers start harassing
her, so Luba urges her to take a break with him.
Outside the bar, Luba asks her how
much money she has saved so far.
When she says she still doesn't have
enough, he asks her why Leo isn't helping.
Naadirah tells him that Leo has
no idea why she's saving up money.
Back inside the bar, Stu, the man harassing
Naadirah, has become more aggressive and
attempts to shove some money in her dress. Leo
witnesses the incident and drags Stu to the
bathroom. While Naadirah begs him to let the
customer go, another man arrives to help Stu.
Naadirah breaks up the fight and tells Leo to calm
down because she can't afford to lose her job.
Leo soon simmers down and lets the
bouncers deal with the rude customers.
After the bouncers escort Stu and his friend
Rob out of the bar, Nadirah receives a call. She
writes down an address on her hand, so Leo offers
his scratchpad. Maksim, the bar owner, calls
Leo to his office and warns him that he'll get
fired if he ever stirs up trouble for him again.
While Leo tries to get some sleep, he hears
someone talking outside his apartment.
When she opens the door, she sees Naadirah sitting
on the floor. Naadirah says she needs to tell him
about someone in her life. Leo starts to worry,
so she assures him that she's not leaving him.
Leo uses the scratchpad to say that nothing
else is important as long as she's with him.
As they relax inside Leo's apartment, Naadirah
notices him drawing on his scratchpad,
so she asks if she could take a look. Leo
shows her a design of a bed and takes her to
his workshop so she can see the parts that he
already finished. Naadirah says that it looks
like something from a fairy tale. Naadirah tells
Leo that she loves him so much, but she's worried
because there are things he still doesn't know
about her. As Naadirah walks out of the workshop,
Leo stops her and kisses her, silently assuring
her that he loves her no matter what. Leo makes
love with Naadirah at the workshop, but when he
wakes up in the morning, she's no longer with him.
Elsewhere, Cactus Bill and his partner Duck
perform surgery on a man who was shot in the leg
with a revolver. After removing five bullets,
Cactus tells Duck to sew up the victim's leg.
Cactus, who is eager to leave Germany, hints to
Maksim's thug, Akim, that he will be gone soon,
so they have to avoid getting shot next
time. Akim tells him that Maksim is still
preparing his documents, but he's having some
difficulties because Cactus has gone AWOL.
While Leo eats at a diner, Cactus recognizes
him as the bartender at Maksim's bar.
Cactus recalls that he fought with Stu
and Rob some nights ago, so he warns Leo
not to fight with them again because he
needs their help to get out of Germany.
Leo ignores his demand and leaves him with a
drawing of his face with a willy on his forehead.
When Leo goes to work again that night, Naadirah
is nowhere to be found. As he looks around the
bar, Luba also asks him where Naadirah is. The
manager introduces Leo to a man named Nicky,
notifying him that he drinks for free because
he runs Makim's business across the street.
While he prepares Nicky's drink, Stu and Rob
order two vodkas and tells him there are no hard
feelings about their spat. However, Leo gets irked
when Stu makes suggestive comments about Naadirah,
so he throws a bottle of vodka on Stu's face. Leo
then jumps over the bar and charges at Stu and his
friend. During the scuffle, Leo accidentally
hits a waitress with his elbow. While Leo is
distracted, Stu slams a table on his face. After
the fight, Maksim tells Leo that he's fired.
At home, Leo uses the phone to contact
Naadirah but receives no reply. He takes
a picture of Naadirah out of the frame and leaves
the apartment. As Leo roams the streets aimlessly,
he suddenly sees Luba, so he follows him to a
parlor. When he gets to the door, a female voice
asks him what he needs, so he asks for Naadirah.
When the woman tells him that he is in the
wrong place, he asks for Luba. Inside, a woman
leads Leo to a room, where he waits for Luba.
When Luba arrives, he asks him about Naadirah.
Luba tells Leo that she probably dumped him.
Luba tries to seduce Leo, so he resists and
knocks over a lamp. Luba gets offended by
his reaction and starts taunting him, saying
Naadirah has been hiding secrets from him.
Akim and another bouncer named Gunther hear
the noise and knock on the door. Luba tells
them that Leo's not interested in his services,
so the bouncers throw him out of the brothel.
While he's at home, Leo receives a
message that appears to be from Naadirah,
saying she's in the hacker's hall. While he
searches for Naadirah in the hacker's hall,
Stu sees him on the security cameras and confronts
him. Rob points a gun at him, telling him to
leave. He shows them a picture of Naadirah, but
Stu tells him that they're not interested in her.
While he tries to communicate with them using the
scratchpad, he remembers that Naadirah had written
something down on the pad a few nights ago. He
shades the paper with the pencil to find out what
Naadirah wrote and soon learns that Naadirah
scribbled the address of a man named Oswald.
At a bowling range, Cactus tells
Duck that he and his daughter, Josie,
have already been recorded into the system to
prepare them for their departure. Duck tells
him that he'll be sticking around because he's
enjoying his job installing body implants. When
some high school girls catch Duck's attention,
he starts making lewd comments about them.
His remarks make Cactus feel uneasy,
so he tells Duck to just keep bowling.
When Duck mentions Josie, he gets upset and
squeezes Duck's hand between the bowling balls.
Leo goes to address on his scratchpad
and knocks on the door. When Oswald
opens it, Leo immediately enters
the apartment and looks around.
Leo comes across a room with numerous photos
on display. Oswald guesses that Leo works for
Nicky and takes some money, telling him that
Nicky needs to get a better class of workers
if he wants to keep his sideline running.
As he browses through the images, Leo sees a
picture with Naadirah's name on it, although he
can't see her face due to the lack of lighting.
Oswald tells Leo that he already paid
Naadirah. However, Leo gets enraged when
Oswald refers to Naadirah as a thieving
call girl. He shoves Oswald to the bed
and stuffs the money inside his mouth, but
he seems to be enjoying it, so he leaves.
Later, he recalls taking an order from a
man named Nicky at the bar the other night,
so he surmises that Oswald must be referring
to the same man. Leo soon receives a cryptic
message with a photo of a man and a little
girl on his phone, asking him if he knows them.
At the parlor, Duck fools around with a girl
named Kanwal, pretending that she's underage.
Kanwal usually helps Cactus babysit Josie, but
since she's occupied, he asks another woman named
Tanya to watch over his daughter while he's away.
Meanwhile, Leo is watching the parlor to see if
Nicky turns up. When he sees Nicky riding a taxi,
he takes Maksim's vintage car and attempts to
drive it. He struggles at first, but he manages
to start it. As he strives to follow the taxi,
Leo swipes several cars and slams into a garbage
truck. Soon, Leo sees Nicky getting out of the
vehicle with Tanya and Josie. Leo follows them
into a restaurant and notices Josie drawing,
so he starts sketching on his pad. Nicky gets
annoyed with Leo and tells Tanya to take Josie
out of the restaurant. As they leave, Leo
hands Josie a sketch of a bear and a cub.
With Josie out of the way, Leo turns
to Nicky and asks him about Naadirah.
Nicky claims that Naadirah doesn't work for him.
Leo shows him the dark photo with Naadirah's name,
but Nicky doesn't seem to know anything about
it. Nicky tells Maksim's men to escort him out
of the restaurant, so Leo asks him
if Maksim knows about his sideline.
Before leaving the restaurant, Leo throws
the money Oswald gave him on Nicky's table.
Leo gets frustrated by the lack of
progress on his search for Naadirah,
but he gets an idea when he hears a
man ordering food on his mobile phone.
Leo soon places an order at a vending machine
in the hopes of tracking down the number that
sends him cryptic messages. When the machine asks
for his number, he tries to type in the digits,
but a man playing video games in the corner
tells him that he's supposed to use his voice.
Leo tells him that he's mute, so the man decides
to help him and recites the number to the machine.
The automated vending system is unable to
track the phone, but it displays an address.
When he goes to the address on the vending
machine, a crossdresser approaches him.
When they get inside the apartment, the
crossdresser tells him that he's impressed
that Leo was able to scare Nicky. He reveals
that he once thought that Leo and Naadirah were
only trying to pull a disappearing act, but he is
now convinced that Leo is really looking for her.
He removes his wig, revealing that he's Luba. Leo
realizes that Luba is also the woman in the dark
picture. Luba tells him that he was moonlighting
to help Naadirah raise money. Luba is infuriated
that Naadirah took the money that he earned
and left him without saying a word. He now
fears that Maksim would come for him because of
her sideline with Nicky. Leo pleads with Luba
to help him find Nicky, but he shocks Leo with
an electric device, knocking him unconscious.
When he wakes up, Luba is gone.
He sees the phone number of Naadirah's mother
on the refrigerator and tries calling it.
Leo writes down the number and looks up
the mother's address using a phone book.
Cactus meets with Duck at a cafe to
tell him that Maksim wants them to
squeeze information out of Nicky. Cactus
notes that Leo had been talking to Nicky,
but Duck surmises that they only had small talk.
Cactus deduces that Leo is looking for Naadirah.
Soon, Gunther and Akim bring Nicky to Cactus'
house so they could torture him for information.
Maksim arrives and tells Cactus that his documents
will be ready the next day. Maksim shows them the
note that Leo wrote to Nicky and asks them to find
out what kind of deal they have with each other.
Duck and Cactus start preparing to
torture Nicky as soon as Maksim leaves.
After going through several phone books, Leo
finally finds the address of Naadirah's mother
and immediately leaves his apartment to see
her. Meanwhile, Cactus visit's Jack's clinic and
finds that he's hidden a camera in the dressing
room to watch young girls change their clothes.
When he finds Duck, Cactus tells him to stay away
from Josie, noting that he saw the hidden camera.
Duck claims that he just installed them, and he
uses them for his job. Cactus doesn't believe him,
so he hits him repeatedly and tells him to stop
treating children in his clinic. Cactus threatens
to expose him the moment he thinks that Duck is
abusing young girls, so Duck promises to stop.
Cactus soon receives a call from Maksim, who
informs him that his documents are ready.
When Leo reaches the apartment of Naadirah's
mother, he shows her a picture of Naadirah,
so she invites him in. The mother struggles
to communicate with Leo as she doesn't speak
English or German. When Leo shows her the
message with the image of a man carrying a
child, the mother tells him that the
little girl is Naadirah's daughter.
She also notifies him that Cactus
had taken Naadirah by force.
Back When Leo had taken Naadirah to his
workshop, Cactus was observing them.
Cactus drugged their tea and waited until they
were asleep. He took Naadirah while she
was unconscious and put her into his car.
Meanwhile, Cactus and Duck go to the mall
to celebrate Cactus' imminent departure.
Cactus tells Duck that he's leaving the
house to him so that he could take over
the surgeries for Maksim. Duck invites
him to go to the parlor, but Cactus says
he has to fetch Josie first because Kanwal is
leaving early. As they walk out of the mall,
Duck confesses that he's been sending messages
to Leo to mess with him. Duck sends a message
to Leo on their way to the parlor, telling
him that Cactus is with Maksim at the bar.
As Cactus waits in the parlor,
he receives a call from Maksim,
so he decides to take Josie with him to Maksim's
bar instead of leaving her with a babysitter.
Leo arrives at the bar using Maksim's car. The
bouncers recognize the car and approach him,
so Leo slams a car door into one of them and hits
another with a carved wooden bedpost that he made.
Inside the bar, he knocks out Akim and Gunther
while Maksim is in his office preparing Cactus'
documents. Leo soon reaches Maksim's office and
hits Maksim with a statue as he was counting
money. Leo takes Cactus's papers and leaves
the bar. Cactus arrives and sees the mess,
thinking that there has been a gang war. He
sees Maksim lying on the floor and asks him
what happened. Maksim warns him that Leo was
looking for him and has taken his documents.
Cactus hurries home and tells Duck to meet him
at his house. Leo soon arrives at Cactus' house
and breaks in using the wooden bedpost. When he
gets to the basement, he sees Nicky on a gurney
and sets him free. When Cactus arrives home,
he takes Josie to her room and locks her in.
He heads to the basement and pulls out a
knife as he walks slowly towards the door.
Back when Cactus kidnapped Naadirah, he took her
to the basement and wrapped a plastic bag over her
head. He berates Naadirah for attempting to leave
with Josie. Cactus says he'll kill Naadirah before
he'd let her take Josie away from him. Naadirah
struggles to breathe as he continues to scold her.
As Leo looks around in the basement, he comes
across a locked wooden gate. Suddenly, he hears
banging on the stairs and sees Nicky tumbling
down. Cactus comes down and throws Leo the key
to the gate. When he gets inside, he opens the
freezer only to find that it's empty. However, he
uncovers a body wrapped in plastic in the corner
and finds out that it was Naadirah. He carries
Naadirah's body and walks toward the stairs, but
Cactus stops him. He puts Naadirah's body down on
the gurney and holds out his hands, waiting for
Cactus to hit him. Cactus tries to beat him with
the wooden post, but Leo fends off the attack.
Cactus drops the bedpost to pull out his hunting
knife and tries to stab Leo, but Leo blocks it and
twists Cactus' arm to point the knife toward him.
Leo slowly plunges the knife towards Cactus'
neck until he lays flat on the ground.
He removes the plastic covering Naadirah's
body and brings her outside the house.
Duck soon arrives at Cactus' home and discovers
Cactus bleeding on the floor. However, he refuses
to help him and castigates him for killing
Naadirah. Duck leaves Cactus bleeding, saying
that he should've treated him better. Duck takes
Josie out of her room and takes her to the jeep.
Moments later, Duck sees Leo outside the house
and knocks him out. He takes him back to his
clinic and installs an electronic voice box
in his throat. After stitching Leo's throat,
Duck tells him to apologize for killing his
Cactus. Leo doesn't say a word, so he takes
him out on a trip. When Leo wakes up inside the
jeep, Duck introduces Josie to him as he drives.
When Duck stops by a restaurant to order some
food, Josie shows him her attempt at drawing
a bear on the sketch he gave her days ago. Duck
keeps driving until they get to a bridge. He takes
Leo to a bench and asks Leo if he recognizes
the place. Duck discloses that they are at
the bridge depicted in the picture of Naadirah,
adding that he was the one who took the photo.
After lambasting Leo over the death of his
partner, Duck breaks a lock on the bridge's guard
rail and opens it. Duck asks Leo to apologize for
killing Cactus once again, but Leo still refuses.
Leo takes a deep breath and gives Duck a bear
hug. He then walks toward the edge of the
bridge while lifting Duck and jumps to water.
Leo maintains his grip on Duck until he runs
out of breath. When Duck stops breathing, Leo
shoves him down and swims back to the surface.
When Josie calls out to him from the bridge, he
waves his hand, asking the child to stay back.
He finally manages to use his voice to tell the
child to stay away from the edge of the bridge.
When Leo gets back up on the bridge, he tells
Josie that he'll take her to her grandma.
When they stop by a restaurant, Leo sees
the spherical wood carving he gave Naadirah
on Josie's wrist. Josie smiles at
Leo when he gives her another one.